# APIBASO

By Steffen Moeller, David Ramrath and Juliane Jaepel, since 2004.

This projects aims at determining motifs in the sequence
of transmembrane proteins of epithelia for the sorting
to the apical or basolateral sides of the plasma membrane.

This directory contains all information required
to redo our investigations with two notable exceptions:
* the tool SPEXS for the pattern finding
* the tool HMMTOP for the prediction of transmembrane regions

SPEXS and HMMTOP should be requested from the respective developers
Jaak Vilo and I. Tusnady.

## 01_literature_protein_data

* [apibaso.xml](01_literature_protein_data/apibaso.xml):
  XML file with a description of transmembrane proteins that are differentially transported.

* apibaso.xsd:
  XML schema definition.    

* apibaso.xsl:
  Instructions for the generation of an HTML file from what is provided by apibaso.xml.

* [apibaso.html](https://github.com/smoe/apibaso/raw/refs/heads/master/01_literature_protein_data/apibaso.html):
  xsltproc-Autogenerated HTML file presenting apibase.XML contens.

* nm.xml: Collection of proteins from the nuclear membrane.

* sortingmotifs.xml: Sequence motifs yet determined to determine the sorting of membrane proteins.

## 02_derived_protein_subsequences

From the above XML file the accession numbers are
automatically selected and corresponding sequences
retrieved from the Internet.
HMMTOP performs the transmembrane annotation upon
a script selects the loci of interest.

This folder is prepared automatically and shared via
the source code repository.

## 03_comparisons

Results of pattern search with SPEXS

## 04_distributions

Evaluation of patterns.

## Makefile

Workflow management, start with "make".

## default.charclass

Parameters for SPEXS

## spexs.charclass

Parameters for SPEXS

## src

Scripts controlled by the Makefile to prepare the k-Nearest-Neighour
classifier on a (possibly changed) XML file. The cross-validation had
a couple of scripts that went temporarily missing.
